Licensing
=========

Centreon Engine is licensed under the terms of the `GNU General Public
License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0>`_ Version 2
as published by the `Free Software Foundation <http://www.fsf.org/>`_.
This gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify
Centreon Engine under certain conditions. Read the ``license.txt`` file
in the Centreon Engine distribution or read the `online version of the
license <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0>`_ for more
details.

Centreon Engine has started as a fork of the Nagios Core project. Nagios
and the Nagios logo are trademarks, servicemarks, registered trademarks
or registered servicemarks owned by Nagios Enterprises, LLC. Centreon,
the Centreon Logo, Merethis and the Merethis logo are trademarks,
servicemarks, registered trademarks or registered servicemarks owned by
Merethis. All other trademarks, servicemarks, registered trademarks, and
registered servicemarks are the property of their respective owner(s).

All source code, binaries, documentation, information, and other files
contained in this distribution are provided AS IS with NO WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY, AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Several people have contributed to Centreon Engine or Nagios Core by
either reporting bugs, suggesting improvements, writing plugins, etc. A
list of some of the many contributors to the development of Centreon
Engine or Nagios Core can be found in the thanks.txt file in the root of
the Centreon Engine distribution.
