gorgone/docs/modules/core/pullwss.md, before:

# Pullwss

## Description

This module should be used on remote nodes where the connection has to be HTTP/HTTPS and must be opened from the node to the Central Gorgone.

This module requires proxy and register module to be configured on the central Gorgone.
The register Module will allow Gorgone to keep the state of every poller, and find out the connection mode. 
The proxy module has to bind to a tcp port for the pullwss module to connect to.

## Configuration

| Directive | Description                                       | Default value |
|:----------|:--------------------------------------------------|:--------------|
| ssl       | should the connection be made over TLS/SSL or not | `false`       |
| address   | IP address to connect to                          |               |
| port      | TCP port to connect to                            |               |
| token     | token to authenticate to the central gorgone      |               |
| proxy     | HTTP(S) proxy to access central gorgone           |               |

### Example

```yaml
name: pullwss
package: "gorgone::modules::core::pullwss::hooks"
enable: true
ssl: true
port: 8086
token: "1234"
address: 192.168.56.105
```

## Events

| Event          | Description                                             |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|
| PULLWSSREADY   | Internal event to notify the core this module is ready. |

## API

No API endpoints.

Commit message:

tests(gorgone): remove logger dependancy
Refs:MON-157180

doc(gorgone): add new param in documentation

Refs:MON-157180

ci(gorgone): fix increment_log_messages_retrieved debug messages

Refs:MON-157180

fix inputs.unit_tests value bool/string potential issue

fix(gorgone): round timestamp before comparison

Refs:MON-157180

doc(gorgone): add a sequence diagram for poller log retrieval by central.

Refs:MON-157180

fix(gorgone): pullwss split GETLOG message before sending them to another host if needed.

- getlog() always order select query by id.
- pullwss module split any GETLOG message to stay bellow the websocket message size limit and transform them in SETLOGS.

For now if a message is lost in transmission it will never be asked again for. An error message will be present in the central log file.

The split is made in the pullwss and not in send_internal_action because the http api use the same GETLOG message locally, which would be broken if messages are split. the new behaviour allow the api to send back as many logs as needed, and to split log only for pullwss connexion method. The other connexion method use zmq that don't have a size limit.

MON-157180

tests(gorgone): add new test on getLog/Setlogs message type with pullwss connexion mode

Refs:MON-157180

gorgone/docs/modules/core/pullwss.md, after:

# Pullwss

## Description

This module should be used on remote nodes where the connection has to be HTTP/HTTPS and must be opened from the node to the Central Gorgone.

This module requires proxy and register module to be configured on the central Gorgone.
The register Module will allow Gorgone to keep the state of every poller, and find out the connection mode. 
The proxy module has to bind to a tcp port for the pullwss module to connect to.

## Configuration

| Directive    | Description                                        | Default value |
|:-------------|:---------------------------------------------------|:--------------|
| ssl          | should the connection be made over TLS/SSL or not  | `false`       |
| address      | IP address to connect to                           |               |
| port         | TCP port to connect to                             |               |
| token        | token to authenticate to the central gorgone       |               |
| proxy        | HTTP(S) proxy to access central gorgone            |               |
| max_msg_size | max message size to send to the central gorgone    | `130000`      |
### Example

```yaml
name: pullwss
package: "gorgone::modules::core::pullwss::hooks"
enable: true
ssl: true
port: 8086
token: "1234"
address: 192.168.56.105
```

## Events

| Event          | Description                                             |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|
| PULLWSSREADY   | Internal event to notify the core this module is ready. |

## API

No API endpoints.
